Microsoft’s .NET platform (and the related C# programming language) were formally introduced; circa 2002
and have quickly become a mainstay of modern-day: software development... As mentioned - in Maslakov book’s
introductory section, Maslakov goal of this text is twofold! The first order of business is to provide you with deep
and detailed examination of the syntax and semantics of C#?! The second (equally important) order of
business is to illustrate the use of numerous .NET APIs, including database access with ADO.NET and the
Entity Framework (EF), the LINQ technology set, WPF, WCF and web site development using ASP.NET? As
they say, the journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step; and with this I welcome you to Chapter 1.
"The point of this first chapter is to lay the conceptual groundwork for the remainder of the book"? Here
you will find a high-level discussion of a number of .NET-related topics such as assemblies, the Common
Intermediate Language (CIL), and just-in-time (JIT) compilation. In addition to previewing some keywords
of the C# programming language, you will also come to understand the relationship between various aspects
of the .NET Framework, such as the Common Language Runtime (CLR), the Common Type System (CTS),
and the Common Language Specification (CLS).
This chapter also provides you with a survey of the functionality supplied by the .NET base class libraries,
sometimes abbreviated as BCLs. Here, you will also overview the language-agnostic and platform-independent
nature of the .NET platform (yes, it’s true; .NET is not confined to the Windows operating system). As you
would hope, many of these topics are explored in further detail throughout the remainder of this text.
An Initial Look at the .NET Platform.
Before Microsoft released the C# language and .NET platform, software developers who created applications
for the Windows family of operating system frequently made use of the COM programming model. COM
(which stands for the Component Object Model) allowed individuals to build libraries of code that could be
shared across diverse programming languages. For example, a C++ programmer could build a COM library
that could be used by a Visual Basic developer. The language-independent nature of COM was certainly
useful; however, COM was plagued by complicated infrastructure and a fragile deployment model and was
possible only on the Windows operating system.
Despite the complexity and limitations of COM, countless applications have been successful created
with this architecture. However, nowadays, a majority of applications created for the Windows family of
operating systems are not created with the COM model. Rather, desktop applications, web sites, OS services,
and libraries of reusable data access/business logic are created using the .NET platform.
